Git lifecycle
=============

Assume you need to work on a project where the code is in a GitHub
Repository. The recommendation is changing code in your workstation and
then publish changes to GitHub for review and merge. I recommend a 10
easy steps process to follow to reduce the chance of having bugs in code
as well as reduce the chance of git merge conflict. I divide these steps
to 2 parts: - Part 1: work on local repository - Part 2: work on GitHub
UI

Part 1: development in your workstation/computer
------------------------------------------------

I provide `Git Commands` for each steps in `part 1` if you wish to use
`Linux/MacOS Terminal`, `Git Bash`, `Windows Powershell` or
`Windows Command Prompt`. If you wish to use an `IDE` or a `Text Editor`
wiht github integration feature, please consult documentations from the
vendor. Keep in mind **All steps are same for IDEs, text editors,
terminals, powershel and command prompt**

### All git commands you need for steps 1 to 5

      ## Step 1
      # if you clone repositry
      git clone <repository-clone-url>
      # example
      git clone https://github.com/github/super-linter.git
      
      # git pull
      git pull
      
      ## Step 2
      # create a new branche
      git checkout -b <new-branch-name-with-no-space>
      example
      git checkout -b task-123
      
      ## Step 3
      # staging files
      git add <file-name>
      # example
      git add README.md
      
      ## Step 4
      # git commit
      git commit -m "commit message"
      # example
      git commit -m "task 123 updated README.md"
      
      ## Step 5
      # git push
      # if branch does not exist in github
      git push -u origin branche-name
      # if git branch does exist in github
      git push 
      

### Step 1 Git Clone or Git Pull

At this step you need to make sure you have latest and gratest code
version in you computer. to do so follow one of below steps

 - If it is the first time, you need to clone the repository to your
computer   - the command will be `git clone <repository-clone-url>`   -
For example `git clone https://github.com/github/super-linter.git`  - If
not git pull will sync the repository in your laptop and it will update
your repository with latest changes   - Make sure you are on **default
branch** then run `git pull` command   - If your default branch name is
`main` just type `git checkout main` then `git pull`

### Step 2 create a new branch

-   It is recommended to create a new branch every time you start
    working on new changes. Here are

### Step 3 stage your changes

 - After finishing with your work, you need to stage files to be
committed to git.

### Step 4 commit changes

 - The staged files will be committed to git in order to keep tracking
of changes

### Step 5 push local changes to GitHub

 - Until this point, all changes are local and you need to push local
changes to GitHub with help of push command.

Part 2: Review and merge code in GitHub
---------------------------------------

pull-request

### Step 6 Create a Pull Request to review changes by your peers

  - After pushing code to GitHub as a new branch, you need to create a
Pull Request(PR) to review changes

### Step 7 Assign your peers to the Pull Request

 - Assign your peers as reviewers to review your code   \#\#\# Step 8
Work with peers to get approval  - Work with reviewers and make any
changes if needed.   \#\#\# Step 9 Your changes have been approved by
your peers  - PR reviewers will approve the Pull Request when everything
look good

### Step 10 Merge your code to main branch

 - In the final step: merge the Pull Request and changes will be
available in the repository's default branch.

Developing code with GitHub at a glance
---------------------------------------

git-cycle

External refs
-------------

-   [Git distributed Version Control
    System](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-About-Version-Control#:~:text=Distributed%20Version%20Control,all%20the%20data.)
